# File Manager App Initial Specs

This app is part of our agentic CRM platform platform. The File Manager web app that allows managing files of the host system. Allows browsing up to the home folder of the user, hosting the openclaw setup and makes it easy to browse per-agent workspaces and other files used by the platform to operate.

Users will use it for: 

* to check files and outputs generated by the platform AI agents
* modify some files to collaborate, when working with agents
* expert users can will also access and edit platform configuration files

For example, a user might ask to edit a file directly and the agent will send a File Manager link
that will allow the user to collaborate on the current version of the file. It could be even a group of files from 
different physical locations, presented as tabs.

## Main features

* File browsing
* Text/code/doc/spreadsheet file editing interface
* Can present a group of files as tabs
* Comments, associated with files and selected text/line numbers
* Browsing of files
    * General
    * Per agent
        * Browse agent's workspace
* File edit
    * File type-aware editor, with syntax highlighting
* File rename/move/delete (with delete confirmation, trash rather than delete, when possible)
* File download            
* System monitoring functions
    * Search for running processes (like in `ps aux | grep ...`) and display the results
    * Show bound listening network ports  
    * Show connected USB devices
* Settings view (for managing settings from the `~/file-manager.conf` file)
* Reads local Openclaw config (and reloads it periodically), so it is aware of agent settings

## Architecture

Vite React app, Typescript, Tailwind.CSS, vitest for tests.


## Browsing acope and access restriction


## Editing functions

TODO


## Comments

TODO


## Dynamic Custom Artefacts

Openclaw agents will be instructed to create temporary dynamic artefacts. Agents will send links to these artefacts that can be viewed as static SPA apps.

## Forbidden files

Some special files will be protected from modification and deletion. This can be configured in the config file. 

When the user tries to edit critical config files (like the ones that control file access), additional authantication 
will be required.


## Visual design

TODO


## Authentication

Authentication: login with the Openclaw master token from ~/.openclaw/openclaw.json

Runs as a user scope service, via systemctl


## File manager app configuration

There should be config file in user's home dir (e.g. `~/file-manager.conf`)


## CLI script for agentic tool calls

This CLI script 

TODO